## 1.1 The minimal Garden project

The minimal Garden is very simple. You just need to secure a room with a video projector and internet connection for 2 hours 4 days in a row.
We consider this the main advantage of following the CuttingGardens organization: stepping in is really easy! You get a great "cutting-edge" program for free (note that we ask attendees to become members of CuttingEEG for a fee)! You don't need a lot of energy, but you can just book a room and be part of the CuttingGardens experience.
By offering to broadcast the plenary lectures, your Garden will earn an "Attendee badge".
Get in touch if this is what you are planning. We'll be happy to set you up for great fun and a lot of MEEG methods!

## 1.2 The medium sized Garden

If you feel like offering the full experience of the real CuttingGardens event, then you may add a few custom activities to your Garden: Tutorials, Posters, Satellite events…
A medium Garden size could offer two key tutorials with some of the most advanced toolboxes for MEEG analysis. Some tutorials are going to happen live, while others will be pre-recorded. You will be welcome to choose the ones you like and earn your "Tutorial badge".
Perhaps will you choose: "Introduction to MEEG data analysis with MNE-Python", or perhaps more adventurously "Power-up your EEG analysis with the UNFOLD toolbox" (names are fictive for now, but we're preparing a large catalog of tutorials).
In addition, you know of two postdocs in your institute who have got interesting results in their last EEG experiment. Offering them a stage to showcase these results is easy. One will offer a lecture on his experiment, and the other will broadcast a tutorial with her toolbox so everybody can start using her promising new method! These two sessions will earn you a "Speaker badge".
On the third evening, you will even take your participants to the local pub for a few drinks. They are going to love it, and your Garden will earn a "Satellite badge".

## 1.3 The full experience Garden

Now that you've realized the potential of the CuttingGardens experience, you want it all.
You block the full four days to get maximum latitude for all your dreams. You have a local team of enthusiasts who are going to help you.
Your meeting will start with the plenary lectures of the first day, followed by 5 parallel sessions with 5 toolboxes you've found in the provided list (still in the making!). Your "tutorial badge" is secured, but you also want your participants to solve their own data analysis problems so you organize a satellite hackathon on the second and third afternoons and earn your "satellite badge".
Your local institute has expertise in "MEEG with babies", so you have thought of three local speakers who will talk about this on the fourth afternoon. This session may well be advertised via the general CuttingGardens website if you add it to your own event website.
Your event wouldn't feel complete without some real entertainment. You've heard about a local art collective that has learned to trigger visual effects with a new type of BCI. It's all set up, and you will earn your "satellite badge".

These are just three basic examples to reveal the potential of participating in CuttingGardens as a local Gardener. Keep reading, and be in touch with us (contact@cuttingeeg.org
