## Step 1: Main Checklist Before You Start

### 2.1 Contact point and effective communication

Choosing the right contact point within the CuttingGardens General Organization Committee is crucial to ensure effective communication and be guided during the organization of your attendance. If you are interested in hosting a Garden, please contact the CuttingGardens General Organization Committee Contact@CuttingEEG.org. You can (and should!) also join our Mattermost channel (here) for instantaneous communication.

### 2.2 Securing the venue

Be sure to have access to a proper venue depending on the badge(s) you have. You can ask your institution to provide space for your event, or you can rent a venue for a price (see costs and funding below). Remember to reserve your space well in advance. When choosing a site, try to keep in mind the ease of access with a variety of transportation methods, and that it is accessible for persons with reduced mobility.

### 2.3 Costs and funding

As you can imagine, having the financial resources to support your Garden is crucial. You can ask your local institution (lab, university…) to sponsor your event and/or apply for a grant. You are responsible for seeking your own funding but the CuttingGardens Organization Committee can help you apply and write applications (get in touch!). 

Depending on its badges, your Garden will have different needs and costs. We are providing a budget template to organize and keep track of your budget, feel free to copy it and adapt it to your needs. We also provide grant application materials to help you fill in your own grant applications!
In addition, the global organization will help local organizers cover their costs. We are actively seeking financial support that could include travel and accommodation costs for global speakers traveling to local Gardens. At the moment, we cannot guarantee that this will be successful.
A direct financial contribution of local Gardens to the global organization is not demanded, but we request that conference participants become members of CuttingEEG, our home organization for a cost. The amount of this membership will be discussed with individual Gardens organizing committees so as to prevent prohibitively high costs for local gardens. It is customary for CuttingEEG events to offer a few participation fee waivers for participants in need for this kind of help.

### 2.4 Teamwork

In order to plant your Garden, you will need the help of several “gardeners”! Get in contact with your co-workers and fellow researchers to be part of the Organization Committee. The more, the merrier!
When recruiting your local Organization Committee remember to pay special attention to diversity: try to have an equal representation of all genders and allow researchers at all career stages to participate and help (see Code of conduct section below).


### 2.5 Code of conduct

CuttingEEG has a Code of Conduct to which you must adhere to for your own Garden.
This code of conduct sets the norms of scientific integrity and open science practices, ensures equality and inclusion, avoids wrongdoing throughout the event, and supports an inviting and inclusive environment accepted by all.
Please make sure that all participants, including speakers, teaching assistants, volunteers, and organizers, read and understand the Code of Conduct ahead of time. 

As we all know, excessive alcohol consumption can lead to inappropriate behavior, and we call on the organizers' responsibility to maintain a professional, welcoming environment for all attendees. Offering a variety of non-alcoholic beverages at all social events is mandatory. For more information about the catering options and alcohol use and service, please also read the information under the
