
# 4. A Month Ahead (~September 2023)

## 4.1 Giveaways

Depending on your budget, funding resources, and ecological consciousness (see code of conduct), it might be a nice gesture to give away some "goodies'' during the event. We emphasize that although these are generally appreciated when they offer a special memory (e.g. with a logo of the event), the amount of wastes and energy consumption that these entail has to be considered. However, those require a dedicated team, good research, and resources to allocate in a timely manner. Therefore plan such arrangements with good time management.

An attractive solution we are currently considering is to offer printed seed paper that could be used to plant CuttingGardens seeds around the world after the event!

## 4.2 Speaker and/or TAs reminder [Speaker Garden] [Satellite Garden] [Tutorials Garden]

Do not forget the speakers and or TAs you agreed have many other workloads and duties filling their schedule. Kindly remind them of the updates about the event, their presentation, and the schedule of the event. If you are inviting speakers from abroad or other cities, make sure to facilitate their accommodation arrangements ahead of time.

## 4.3 Finalize the program early

Finalizing and publishing a program is a good way to commit organizers (you!) to stick with their plan from the very early stage. It also helps getting attention to your event.
The program template offered by the CuttingGardens provides a basic time-schedule. It is recommended to use this template as a starting point and to adjust it based on your specific needs.

One important tip here: don't forget the breaks! As an event organizer, it is always tempting to fit in more activities than is reasonable. Your participants (and you!) need breaks every hour or so. People are making good use of that time, don't worry!

Also "Panel discussions" are often appreciated. This is why we organize every plenary session in a 3-talks + panel discussion pattern.

## 4.4 Tutorial checks [Tutorials Gardens Only]

If you plan to run a tutorial track, it is a good idea to poll your participants for their knowledge and experience. The registration time is a good time to do this ("How much experience do you have with this toolbox?" - beginner - intermediate - expert). It is good practice to adapt the level of the tutorials to the expected participants' level.

It is also good practice to ask tutors to provide the materials ahead of time. And distribute it to participants, especially if loading a dataset is required, as it may overload the local network if all participants start downloading a large dataset during the tutorial.

Power plugs: Bear in mind that during a tutorial session, each participant may need to plug in their laptop computer, so a sufficient number of power outlets should be on site on time. See also Infrastructure checks below.

## 4.5 Emergency Backup Plans

It is always recommended to have an emergency plan to react efficiently in the event of any cancellations of an already agreed plan in the program or other higher risking emergencies that might cause health and safety hazards to the attendees (e.g. life-threatening health condition of an attendee, first aid requiring incidents, fire etc.). Please do not forget that emergency situations can develop very quickly, therefore it is always recommended to prepare backup plans to deal with the most common emergency situations.

Considering the possible safety emergency situations, finding a venue that provides all the supplies to take the necessary actions in the existence of an emergency situation should be one of the priorities. Based on the provided sources
