## 5.1 Program 

Make sure the event program is finalized together with enough time allocated for set-up, movements and breaks.

## 5.2 Reminders  

Send an email reminder to attendees, sponsors, volunteers, and organizers with the time-schedule and all necessary information (location and contact points).

Make sure that the attendees, speakers, volunteers, suppliers were all provided with the link to the Code of Conduct, and that it has been read before the event participation.

Remind attendees not to forget their own laptops and electrical converters, etc.

## 5.3 Volunteering checks   

Confirm with all volunteers regarding they're signed up duties and who to report back to. They should know their duties and fluidity between the roles in the case of a need for personnel in a situation. They should all know the rules listed in the Code of Conduct, how to act in the case of a crisis and who to direct the people affected by an incident. Similarly, they should be clear about how to act in the case of an emergency situation, being the liaison with the first aiders, security of the building and the organization leaders. If you could create a Gantt chart from the very early stage of job dissemination you can also refer your volunteers to follow it and fill the checkboxes regarding the works that have already been done and completed. While this would help you to be organized as the event host, you can also follow the track of the work that needs to be completed and make additional assignments in case a job needs more volunteers to work on to finish in time.

## 5.4 Vendor checks

Confirm all time, quantity and service information with the vendors.

## 5.5 Speakers and TAs checks  [Speaker Garden]  [Satellite Garden]  
 [Tutorials Garden]
Make sure the Code of Conduct has been read and agreed upon. Make sure they join the Mattermost channel and ask them to join and introduce themselves there.
Share the program with them.
Request speakers to send their presentations so that they are published on the website.

## 5.6 Attendee checks

Make sure the Code of Conduct has been read and agreed upon. Make sure they join the Mattermost channel and propose to them to introduce themselves there.

Share the program with them. Remind attendees of the structure of the starting pitches, and ending demos according to the scheduled time plan. 

## 5.6 Tutorial checks  [Tutorials Garden]

Share the necessary information regarding the tools, data, slides to download ahead of the event, tutorials to read through, the rooms and the schedule dedicated to the tutorial track.
You can propose a Mattermost channel to discuss installation issues or general questions relative to a given tutorial.
